.TH MULTIAGENT 1 "May 2026" "multiagent" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
multiagent \- run Git-backed teams of Pi agents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B multiagent
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
MULTIAGENT defines and runs a local agent system inside a Git repository.
Repository configuration lives under
.BR .multiagent ,
and local runtime state lives under
.BR ~/.multiagent/state/<instance-id> .
There is no system-wide daemon.
.PP
Agents are configured in
.B .multiagent/team.toml
using singular
.B [[agent]]
tables. Pi is always the runtime. The
.B mode
field selects queued worker agents or persistent interactive agents.
.SH TEAM CONFIGURATION
Example:
.PP
.nf
[[agent]]
name = "planner-1"
role = "planner"
mode = "worker"

[[agent]]
name = "operator"
role = "planner"
mode = "interactive"
options = { heartbeat = 15 }
.fi
.PP
If
.B options.heartbeat
is absent, heartbeat is disabled for that agent. Heartbeat is only valid for
interactive agents.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B local init
Initialize repository MULTIAGENT files and ignored local state.
.TP
.B local update [--roles]
Refresh instance state shape. With
.BR --roles ,
refresh packaged role templates too.
.TP
.B local start [--restart]
Start the supervisor and every configured agent.
.TP
.B local stop
Stop the supervisor and managed agents.
.TP
.B local restart
Stop and start the supervisor, rereading the team file.
.TP
.B local status
Show repository runtime status.
.TP
.B local prompt [--quiet] agent message...
Send live input to a running interactive agent. Without
.BR --quiet ,
print the agent transcript for the current turn.
.TP
.B local log [-f] agent
Print an agent transcript, optionally following it.
.TP
.B local team list
List configured agents.
.TP
.B local team show [agent]
Show the effective team file or one configured agent.
.TP
.B local team add agent --role role [--mode worker|interactive] [--model model] [--heartbeat minutes]
Add an agent to the local team file.
.TP
.B local team set agent [--role role] [--mode worker|interactive] [--model model] [--heartbeat minutes] [--no-heartbeat]
Update one configured agent.
.TP
.B local team remove agent
Remove one configured agent.
.TP
.B local team edit
Open the local team file in
.BR EDITOR ,
or print its path if no editor is set.
.TP
.B local role list|show|add|edit|diff|reset
Inspect or manage role files.
.TP
.B local rules show
Print the installed generic agent protocol.
.TP
.B agent task create|list|show|comment|state|result
Operate on local task state.
.TP
.B agent job create|list|claim|start|done|fail|release|reset|kill|orphans|reset-orphans|reap|wait|mine|watch
Operate on local job state and recovery workflows.
.TP
.B agent new|input|heartbeat|worker|interactive
Run internal agent protocol utilities.
.TP
.B docker start|stop|destroy|logs|status|build-image
Run and control containerized multiagent systems.
.TP
.B dashboard
Serve the dashboard.
.SH INTERACTIVE AGENTS
A running interactive agent exposes a Unix socket and metadata file:
.PP
.nf
~/.multiagent/state/<instance-id>/agents/<agent>/rpc.sock
~/.multiagent/state/<instance-id>/agents/<agent>/rpc.json
.fi
.PP
.B prompt,
.BR agent-input ,
heartbeat helpers, and the dashboard use that socket.
.SH DASHBOARD
.B multiagent dashboard
serves the dashboard and reads running repositories from links under
.BR ~/.multiagent/instances/ .
The dashboard does not start hidden agents.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B .multiagent/team.toml
Repo-local team configuration.
.TP
.B .multiagent/roles/*.md
Optional repo-local role overrides.
.TP
.B ~/.multiagent/state/<instance-id>/
Runtime state.
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1)
